README.md, before:

# window-functions

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/scijs/window-functions.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/scijs/window-functions) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/window-functions.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/window-functions)  [![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/scijs/window-functions.svg)](https://david-dm.org/scijs/window-functions)

Window functions for digital signal processing

# Introduction

Among other uses, [window functions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_function) help control [spectral leakage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spectral_leakage) when doing Fourier Analysis. This collection of window functions is copied directly from Wikipedia. Caveat emptor.

# Example

An example of applying a Hamming window to a signal array:

```javascript
var wfunc = require('window-functions'),
    i, N = signal.length;

for(i=0; i<N; i++) {
  signal[i] *= wfunc.hamming(i,N)
}
```

But really, there are lots of cosines and function evaluations in many of these windows, so if you reuse the window, it may be beneficial to precalculate and reuse it.

# Usage

Simply pass the window the sample number and total number of samples to calculate the value of the window function for the given sample.

The plots below are calculated directly from the npm module and plotted with matplotlib to illustrate the spectral leakage. See [the Wikipedia page on window functions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_function) for more details.

### Window Functions
- [Bartlett-Hann](#bartletthann-i-n-)
- [Bartlett](#bartlett-i-n-)
- [Blackman-Harris](#blackmanharris-i-n-)
- [Blackman-Nuttall](#blackmannuttall-i-n-)
- [Cosine](#cosine-i-n-)
- [Exact Blackman](#exactblackman-i-n-)
- [Flat top](#flattop-i-n-)
- [Gaussian](#gaussian-i-n-sigma-)
- [Hamming](#hamming-i-n-)
- [Hann](#hann-i-n-)
- [Lanczos](#lanczos-i-n-)
- [Nuttall](#nuttall-i-n-)
- [Rectangular](#rectangular-i-n-)
- [Triangular](#triangular-i-n-)
- [Tukey](#tukey-i-n-alpha-)
- [Welch](#welch-i-n-)


#### `bartlettHann( i, N )`:

![Bartlett-Hann Window Equation 1](docs/equations/bartlett-hann-1.png)

![Bartlett-Hann Window Equation 2](docs/equations/bartlett-hann-2.png)

![Bartlett-Hann](docs/plots/bartlett-hann.png)

#### `bartlett( i, N )`:

![Bartlett](docs/plots/bartlett.png)

#### `blackman( i, N )`:

![Blackman Window Equation 1](docs/equations/blackman-1.png)

![Blackman Window Equation 2](docs/equations/blackman-2.png)

![Blackman](docs/plots/blackman.png)

#### `blackmanHarris( i, N )`:

![Blackman-Harris Window Equation 1](docs/equations/blackman-harris-1.png)

![Blackman-Harris Window Equation 2](docs/equations/blackman-harris-2.png)

![Blackman-Harris](docs/plots/blackman-harris.png)

#### `blackmanNuttall( i, N )`:

![Blackman-Nuttall Window Equation 1](docs/equations/blackman-nuttall-1.png)

![Blackman-Nuttall Window Equation 2](docs/equations/blackman-nuttall-2.png)

![Blackman-nuttall](docs/plots/blackman-nuttall.png)

#### `cosine( i, N )`:

![Cosine Window Equation 1](docs/equations/cosine.png)

![Cosine](docs/plots/cosine.png)

#### `exactBlackman( i, N )`:

![Exact Blackman](docs/plots/exact-blackman.png)

The same as the Blackman window, except a0 = 0.42659 a1 = 0.49656, and a2 = 0.076849. These place zeros at the third and fourth sidelobes.

#### `flatTop( i, N )`:

![Flat top Window Equation 1](docs/equations/flattop-1.png)

![Flat top Window Equation 2](docs/equations/flattop-2.png)

![Flat Top](docs/plots/flattop.png)

#### `gaussian( i, N, sigma )`:

Sigma controls the width of the window.

![Gaussian Window Equation 1](docs/equations/gaussian-1.png)

![Gaussian Window Equation 2](docs/equations/gaussian-2.png)

![Gaussian](docs/plots/gaussian.png)

#### `hamming( i, N )`:

![Hamming Window Equation 1](docs/equations/hamming-1.png)

![Hamming Window Equation 2](docs/equations/hamming-2.png)

![Hamming](docs/plots/hamming.png)

#### `hann( i, N )`:

![Hann Window Equation](docs/equations/hann.png)

![Hann](docs/plots/hann.png)

#### `lanczos( i, N )`:

![Lanczos Window Equation](docs/equations/lanczos.png)

![Lanczos](docs/plots/lanczos.png)

#### `nuttall( i, N )`:
![Nuttall Window Equation 1](docs/equations/nuttall-1.png)

![Nuttall Window Equation 2](docs/equations/nuttall-2.png)

![Nuttall](docs/plots/nuttall.png)

#### `rectangular( i, N )`:

![Rectangular Window Equation](docs/equations/rectangular.png)

![Rectangular](docs/plots/rectangular.png)

#### `triangular( i, N )`:

![Triangular Window Equation](docs/equations/triangular.png)

![Triangular](docs/plots/triangular.png)

#### `tukey( i, N, alpha )`:

A tapered cosine window. Alpha controls the relative width of the flat section. Alpha=0 is rectangular, alpha=1 is Hann.  ![Tukey Window Equation](docs/equations/tukey.png)

![Tukey](docs/plots/tukey.png)

#### `welch( i, N )`:

![Welch Window Equation](docs/equations/welch.png)

![Welch](docs/plots/welch.png)


## Testing

There aren't really tests at the moment. To generate the plots, run

```bash
$ npm run generate-plots
```

It pipes them through matplotlib. Don't worry. I realize the irony.



## Credits
Window function definitions and equation images from [Wikipedia: Window Function](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_function).

(c) 2015 Ricky Reusser. MIT License

Commit message:

Add API and rename to scijs-window-functions

README.md, after:

# scijs-window-functions

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/scijs/window-functions.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/scijs/window-functions) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/scijs-window-functions.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/scijs-window-functions)  [![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/scijs/window-functions.svg)](https://david-dm.org/scijs/window-functions)

Window functions for digital signal processing

# Introduction

Among other uses, [window functions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_function) help control [spectral leakage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spectral_leakage) when doing Fourier Analysis. This collection of window functions is copied directly from Wikipedia. Caveat emptor.

# Example

An example of applying a Hamming window to a signal array:

```javascript
var wfunc = require('scijs-window-functions'),
    i, N = signal.length;

for(i=0; i<N; i++) {
  signal[i] *= wfunc.hamming(i,N)
}
```

But really, there are lots of cosines and function evaluations in many of these windows, so if you reuse the window, it may be beneficial to precalculate and reuse it.

# Usage

#### `apply( windowFunction [, parameters] )`

To apply a window function to an existing signal, pass the window function and any additional parameters to `apply`. For example, given an `Array` `signal`,

```javascript
var winfunc = require('scijs-window-functions')

apply( signal, winfunc.gaussian, 0.4 )
```

#### `generate( windowFunction, N )`

Generate creates a new `Array` with length `N` in which it evaluates the window function. It returns the newly-created array.



## Window Functions

To calculate the value of a window function, pass the sample number and total number of samples to one of the window functions listed below, along with any additional parameters it may require. The plots below are calculated from the npm module and plotted with Fourier transform to illustrate the spectral leakage. See [the Wikipedia page on window functions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_function) for more details.

- [Bartlett-Hann](#bartletthann-i-n-)
- [Bartlett](#bartlett-i-n-)
- [Blackman-Harris](#blackmanharris-i-n-)
- [Blackman-Nuttall](#blackmannuttall-i-n-)
- [Cosine](#cosine-i-n-)
- [Exact Blackman](#exactblackman-i-n-)
- [Flat top](#flattop-i-n-)
- [Gaussian](#gaussian-i-n-sigma-)
- [Hamming](#hamming-i-n-)
- [Hann](#hann-i-n-)
- [Lanczos](#lanczos-i-n-)
- [Nuttall](#nuttall-i-n-)
- [Rectangular](#rectangular-i-n-)
- [Triangular](#triangular-i-n-)
- [Tukey](#tukey-i-n-alpha-)
- [Welch](#welch-i-n-)


#### `bartlettHann( i, N )`:

![Bartlett-Hann Window Equation 1](docs/equations/bartlett-hann-1.png)

![Bartlett-Hann Window Equation 2](docs/equations/bartlett-hann-2.png)

![Bartlett-Hann](docs/plots/bartlett-hann.png)

#### `bartlett( i, N )`:

![Bartlett](docs/plots/bartlett.png)

#### `blackman( i, N )`:

![Blackman Window Equation 1](docs/equations/blackman-1.png)

![Blackman Window Equation 2](docs/equations/blackman-2.png)

![Blackman](docs/plots/blackman.png)

#### `blackmanHarris( i, N )`:

![Blackman-Harris Window Equation 1](docs/equations/blackman-harris-1.png)

![Blackman-Harris Window Equation 2](docs/equations/blackman-harris-2.png)

![Blackman-Harris](docs/plots/blackman-harris.png)

#### `blackmanNuttall( i, N )`:

![Blackman-Nuttall Window Equation 1](docs/equations/blackman-nuttall-1.png)

![Blackman-Nuttall Window Equation 2](docs/equations/blackman-nuttall-2.png)

![Blackman-nuttall](docs/plots/blackman-nuttall.png)

#### `cosine( i, N )`:

![Cosine Window Equation 1](docs/equations/cosine.png)

![Cosine](docs/plots/cosine.png)

#### `exactBlackman( i, N )`:

![Exact Blackman](docs/plots/exact-blackman.png)

The same as the Blackman window, except a0 = 0.42659 a1 = 0.49656, and a2 = 0.076849. These place zeros at the third and fourth sidelobes.

#### `flatTop( i, N )`:

![Flat top Window Equation 1](docs/equations/flattop-1.png)

![Flat top Window Equation 2](docs/equations/flattop-2.png)

![Flat Top](docs/plots/flattop.png)

#### `gaussian( i, N, sigma )`:

Sigma controls the width of the window.

![Gaussian Window Equation 1](docs/equations/gaussian-1.png)

![Gaussian Window Equation 2](docs/equations/gaussian-2.png)

![Gaussian](docs/plots/gaussian.png)

#### `hamming( i, N )`:

![Hamming Window Equation 1](docs/equations/hamming-1.png)

![Hamming Window Equation 2](docs/equations/hamming-2.png)

![Hamming](docs/plots/hamming.png)

#### `hann( i, N )`:

![Hann Window Equation](docs/equations/hann.png)

![Hann](docs/plots/hann.png)

#### `lanczos( i, N )`:

![Lanczos Window Equation](docs/equations/lanczos.png)

![Lanczos](docs/plots/lanczos.png)

#### `nuttall( i, N )`:
![Nuttall Window Equation 1](docs/equations/nuttall-1.png)

![Nuttall Window Equation 2](docs/equations/nuttall-2.png)

![Nuttall](docs/plots/nuttall.png)

#### `rectangular( i, N )`:

![Rectangular Window Equation](docs/equations/rectangular.png)

![Rectangular](docs/plots/rectangular.png)

#### `triangular( i, N )`:

![Triangular Window Equation](docs/equations/triangular.png)

![Triangular](docs/plots/triangular.png)

#### `tukey( i, N, alpha )`:

A tapered cosine window. Alpha controls the relative width of the flat section. Alpha=0 is rectangular, alpha=1 is Hann.  ![Tukey Window Equation](docs/equations/tukey.png)

![Tukey](docs/plots/tukey.png)

#### `welch( i, N )`:

![Welch Window Equation](docs/equations/welch.png)

![Welch](docs/plots/welch.png)


## Testing

There aren't really tests at the moment. To generate the plots, run

```bash
$ npm run generate-plots
```

It pipes them through matplotlib. Don't worry. I realize the irony.



## Credits
Window function definitions and equation images from [Wikipedia: Window Function](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_function).

(c) 2015 Ricky Reusser. MIT License
